README.md, before:

# export-control

Info site for the Norwegian Export Control law.

## Project setup

1. Make sure you have Python 3.10 installed (https://www.python.org/downloads/)

   ```
   python3 --version
   ```

2. Make sure you have PostgreSQL 14.5 installed (https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

   ```
   psql --version
   ```

3. Clone the repo (and navigate into it)

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/cdp-group4/export-control.git
   cd export-control
   ```

4. Set up Python virtual environment (to isolate dependencies)

   ```
   python3 -m venv venv
   ```

5. Activate virtual environment

   ```
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

6. Install dependencies

   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

7. Set up linting and formatting in VSCode

   - Install Python extension (https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python)
   - Open settings (File -> Preferences -> Settings)
   - Search `flake8` -> check `Python > Linting: Flake8 Enabled`
   - Search `formatting` -> choose `black` in `Python > Formatting Provider`
   - Search `format on save` -> check `Editor: Format On Save`

8. Create `.env` file in the root of the project, with the following values:

   ```
   SECRET_KEY=django-insecure-7bk+5=k2aa)kt=45p1s+#&&i#u&$0#2@-6#wtle2*e&tv^^9s-
   DEBUG=true
   ```

   If you have set a custom database name, user, password, host or port for Postgres, also add values for `DB_NAME`/`DB_USER`/`DB_PASSWORD`/`DB_HOST`/`DB_PORT`.

9. Start server (requires Postgres database server to be running as well)

   ```
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

10. Make migrations

    ```
    python manage.py migrate
    ```

11. Create admin user

    ```
    python manage.py createsuperuser --username=admin --email=admin@example.com
    ```

12. Parse pdf into the database

    ```
    python manage.py loaddata regulations.json
    ```

Commit message:

add project structure part to readme

README.md, after:

# export-control

Info site for the Norwegian Export Control law.

## Project structure

- `config` contains the configuration (settings and URLs) for the Django app
- `regulations` contains the models and pages for regulations in the export control law
- `contacts` contains models and pages for contact information from users
- `base` contains base templates and and pages for the website
- `utils` contains utility functions and types for the app

## Project setup

1. Make sure you have Python 3.10 installed (https://www.python.org/downloads/)

   ```
   python3 --version
   ```

2. Make sure you have PostgreSQL 14.5 installed (https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

   ```
   psql --version
   ```

3. Clone the repo (and navigate into it)

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/cdp-group4/export-control.git
   cd export-control
   ```

4. Set up Python virtual environment (to isolate dependencies)

   ```
   python3 -m venv venv
   ```

5. Activate virtual environment

   ```
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

6. Install dependencies

   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

7. Set up linting and formatting in VSCode

   - Install Python extension (https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python)
   - Open settings (File -> Preferences -> Settings)
   - Search `flake8` -> check `Python > Linting: Flake8 Enabled`
   - Search `formatting` -> choose `black` in `Python > Formatting Provider`
   - Search `format on save` -> check `Editor: Format On Save`

8. Create `.env` file in the root of the project, with the following values:

   ```
   SECRET_KEY=django-insecure-7bk+5=k2aa)kt=45p1s+#&&i#u&$0#2@-6#wtle2*e&tv^^9s-
   DEBUG=true
   ```

   If you have set a custom database name, user, password, host or port for Postgres, also add values for `DB_NAME`/`DB_USER`/`DB_PASSWORD`/`DB_HOST`/`DB_PORT`.

9. Start server (requires Postgres database server to be running as well)

   ```
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

10. Make migrations

    ```
    python manage.py migrate
    ```

11. Create admin user

    ```
    python manage.py createsuperuser --username=admin --email=admin@example.com
    ```

12. Parse pdf into the database

    ```
    python manage.py loaddata regulations.json
    ```
